README.md, before:

# dwd_forecast_service
`dwd_forecast_service` is a micro service that offers a REST-API to query
weather forecasts based on data that has been downloaded from
[opendata.dwd.de](http://opendata.dwd.de) by micro service `dwd_data_crawler`
([https://github.com/UdSAES/dwd_data_crawler](https://github.com/UdSAES/dwd_data_crawler)).

![Set of logos](./docs/logos_uds_aes_designetz_bmwi.png)

## Dependencies
Part of data on opendata.dwd.de is provided in compressed form. For
performance reasons `dwd_data_crawler` transforms the compression from `bzip2`
to `lz4` during the download and storage procedure.

In order to provide a forecast `dwd_forecast_service` needs to decompress the
`lz4` files. As of today, we, the authors of `dwd_forecast_service`, are not
aware of a high performance implementation of `lz4`. Therefore we have decided to
realize the decompression of `lz4` files by calling `lz4` command via
`child_process.execFile`. **Thus, the `lz4` command forms a dependency
of `dwd_forecast_service`.**

## Usage
The micro service is configured via the following environment variables:
* `LISTEN_PORT`: The TCP port the micro service is listening for incoming requests.
* `DATA_ROOT_PATH`: The path to the storage directory where `dwd_data_crawler` is storing the files downloaded from opendata.dwd.de.
* `NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH`: The path to the directory where the micro service shall store the newest forecasts for the predefined pois (Points of interest).

Sample call
```
$ LISTEN_PORT=12345 DATA_ROOT_PATH=/home/service/DWD_data_storage \
  NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH=/home/service/forecast_storage \
  node index.js
```

## Basic idea
The basic idea of the micro service `dwd_forecast_service`is to provide weather forecast information based on data previously downloaded by the micro service `dwd_data_crawler` from opendata.dwd.de. Thus, `dwd_forecast_service` itself does not query from opendata.dwd.de directly. This approach has two significant advanteges:
1. Forecast information can be provided even if a connection to opendata.dwd.de is not available (e.g. due to a connection malfunction or if a connection is not possible due to security reasons).
2. As `dwd_data_crawler` is storing data from opendata.dwd.de in a file structure which prevents overriding of data (as it is done by opendata.dwd.de) it is possible to provide historical forecasts which might be interesting for research activities.

The interaction between `opendata.dwd.de`, `dwd_data_crawler` and `dwd_forecast_service` is shown in the following diagram.
<img src="./docs/interaction.svg" width="600">

Forecasts are provided for predefined points of interest. The predefined points of interest are stored in a configuration file in the path `./configuration/pois.json`.

For each of the predefined points of interest a newest 27 h and 45 h forecast are cyclically derived by the loop as shown in the following diagram.

<img src="./docs/poi_query_loop.svg" width="600">

The forecasts generated by the loop are stored in the files `27h_forecast.json` and `45h_forecast.json` under the path `$NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH/$poi_id/` where
* `$NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH` given as parameter to the program
* `$poi_id` is the id of the point of interest.

Commit message:

docs: added license section in README.md

README.md, after:

# dwd_forecast_service
`dwd_forecast_service` is a micro service that offers a REST-API to query
weather forecasts based on data that has been downloaded from
[opendata.dwd.de](http://opendata.dwd.de) by micro service `dwd_data_crawler`
([https://github.com/UdSAES/dwd_data_crawler](https://github.com/UdSAES/dwd_data_crawler)).

![Set of logos](./docs/logos_uds_aes_designetz_bmwi.png)

## License
See the [LICENSE](./LICENSE) file for license rights and limitations (MIT).

## Dependencies
Part of data on opendata.dwd.de is provided in compressed form. For
performance reasons `dwd_data_crawler` transforms the compression from `bzip2`
to `lz4` during the download and storage procedure.

In order to provide a forecast `dwd_forecast_service` needs to decompress the
`lz4` files. As of today, we, the authors of `dwd_forecast_service`, are not
aware of a high performance implementation of `lz4`. Therefore we have decided to
realize the decompression of `lz4` files by calling `lz4` command via
`child_process.execFile`. **Thus, the `lz4` command forms a dependency
of `dwd_forecast_service`.**

## Usage
The micro service is configured via the following environment variables:
* `LISTEN_PORT`: The TCP port the micro service is listening for incoming requests.
* `DATA_ROOT_PATH`: The path to the storage directory where `dwd_data_crawler` is storing the files downloaded from opendata.dwd.de.
* `NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH`: The path to the directory where the micro service shall store the newest forecasts for the predefined pois (Points of interest).

Sample call
```
$ LISTEN_PORT=12345 DATA_ROOT_PATH=/home/service/DWD_data_storage \
  NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH=/home/service/forecast_storage \
  node index.js
```

## Basic idea
The basic idea of the micro service `dwd_forecast_service`is to provide weather forecast information based on data previously downloaded by the micro service `dwd_data_crawler` from opendata.dwd.de. Thus, `dwd_forecast_service` itself does not query from opendata.dwd.de directly. This approach has two significant advanteges:
1. Forecast information can be provided even if a connection to opendata.dwd.de is not available (e.g. due to a connection malfunction or if a connection is not possible due to security reasons).
2. As `dwd_data_crawler` is storing data from opendata.dwd.de in a file structure which prevents overriding of data (as it is done by opendata.dwd.de) it is possible to provide historical forecasts which might be interesting for research activities.

The interaction between `opendata.dwd.de`, `dwd_data_crawler` and `dwd_forecast_service` is shown in the following diagram.
<img src="./docs/interaction.svg" width="600">

Forecasts are provided for predefined points of interest. The predefined points of interest are stored in a configuration file in the path `./configuration/pois.json`.

For each of the predefined points of interest a newest 27 h and 45 h forecast are cyclically derived by the loop as shown in the following diagram.

<img src="./docs/poi_query_loop.svg" width="600">

The forecasts generated by the loop are stored in the files `27h_forecast.json` and `45h_forecast.json` under the path `$NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH/$poi_id/` where
* `$NEWEST_FORECAST_ROOT_PATH` given as parameter to the program
* `$poi_id` is the id of the point of interest.
